releases: add TiDB 4.0.7 release notes (#3953)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-4.0.7.md

---
title: TiDB 4.0.7 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.7 Release Notes

Release date: September 29, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.7

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## New Features

+ PD

    - Add `GetAllMembers` function to get pd member info in PD client [#2980](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2980)

+ TiDB Dashboard

    - Support to generate metrics relationship graph [#760](https://github.com/pingcap-incubator/tidb-dashboard/pull/760)

```

## Improvements

+ TiDB

>     - Add more runtime information for join executor [#20093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20093)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Add more runtime information for join executor [#20093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20093)
    - Add coprocessor cache hit ratio in explain analyze [#19972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19972)
    - Support push ROUND function to TiFlash [#19967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19967)
    - Add default value of CMSketch for Analyze [#19927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19927)
```

    - Add coprocessor cache hit ratio in explain analyze [#19972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19972)
    - Support push ROUND function to TiFlash [#19967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19967)
    - Add default value of CMSketch for Analyze [#19927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19927)

+ TiKV

    - Support JSON log format [#8382](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8382)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

+ PD

    - Make counter inc when operator finished rather than operator added [#2983](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2983)
    - Set the `make-up-replica` operator to high priority [#2977](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2977)

```

+ TiFlash

    - Improve error handling of Region meta change happened during read in progress

+ Tools

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ PD

    - Make counter inc when operator finished rather than operator added [#2983](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2983)
    - Set the `make-up-replica` operator to high priority [#2977](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2977)

```

    - Fix incorrect error message of inserting enum & set [#19950](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19950)
    - Fix the behavior of rewrite ScalarFunction IsTure [#19903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19903)
    - Fix CLUSTER_INFO system table may not work after PD is scaled-in or out [#20026](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20026)
    - Avoid unnecessary warnings/errors when folding constants in control expr [#19910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19910)

+ TiKV

    - Fix status service shutdown when TLS handshake failed [#8649](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8649)
    - Fix potential undefined behaviors [#7782](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7782)
    - Fix possible panic of generating snap when doing UnsafeDestroyRange [#8681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8681)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that pd might panic If some regions have no leader when `balance-region` enabled [#2994](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2994)
    - Fix the statistical deviation of region size and region keys after region merge [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2985)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Fix error hot statistic metrics [#2991](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2991)
    - Fix miss err in `redirectSchedulerDelete` [#2974](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2974)

```

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix a bug that caused the TiDB config changed after restoring [#509](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/509)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix the problem that dumpling fails to parse metadata when some variables are `NULL` [#150](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/150)

## Others

+ TiDB

    - Update stats per table to avoid OOM [#20013](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20013)
    - Refine error message desensitization [#20004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20004)

>     - Add coprocessor cache hit ratio in explain analyze [#19972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19972)

Reviewer 3: This should be improvement? @lzmhhh123

Reviewer 2: Yes.

>     - Add coprocessor cache hit ratio in explain analyze [#19972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19972)
>     - Support push ROUND function to TiFlash [#19967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19967)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - Accept connections from clients using connectors from MySQL 8.0 [#19959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19959)

>     - Add default value of CMSketch for Analyze [#19927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19927)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> + PD
> 
>     - Update the dependency of errors [#3003](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3003)
>     - Fix error hot statistic metrics [#2991](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2991)
>     - Improvement:  make counter inc when operator finished rather than operator add [#2983](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2983)
>     - Add GetMemberInfo() function to get pd member info [#2980](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2980)
>     - Set the `make-up-replica` operator to high priority [#2977](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2977)
>     - Fix miss err in `redirectSchedulerDelete` [#2974](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2974)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

    - Solve vectorization bug from `and`/`or`/`COALESCE` due to shortcut [#20092](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20092)
    - Fix issue of plan digest is same when cop task store is different [#20076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20076)
    - Fix the wrong behavior of the `!= any()` function [#20062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20062)
    - Fix the issue that querying slow_query returns an error when the slow log file does not exist [#20051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20051)
    - Fix the issue that Region requests continues to retry when the context is canceled [#20031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20031)
    - Fix the issue that querying the time type of the `cluster_slow_query` table in streaming request might result in an error [#19943](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19943)
    - Fix the issue that DML statements using `case when` might cause schema change [#20095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20095)
    - Fix the issue that the `prev_stmt` information in slow log is not desensitized [#20048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20048)

>     - Fix the issue that tidb-server does not release table lock when it exits abnormally [#20020](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20020)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that tidb-server does not release the table lock when it exits abnormally [#20020](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20020)
```

>     - Fix the incorrect error message that occurs when inserting data of the `enum` and `set` type [#19950](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19950)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the incorrect error message that occurs when inserting data of the `ENUM` and `SET` type [#19950](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19950)
```

    - Fix the wrong behavior of the `IsTrue` function in some situations [#19903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19903)
    - Fix the issue that the `CLUSTER_INFO` system table might not work normally after PD is scaled in or out [#20026](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20026)

>     - Avoid unnecessary warnings or errors when folding constants in control expressions [#19910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19910)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Avoid unnecessary warnings or errors when folding constants in `control` expressions [#19910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19910)
```

>     - Update the method of updating statistics to avoid OOM [#20013](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20013)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Update the method of updating statistics to avoid Out of Memory (OOM) [#20013](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20013)
```

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue of unavailable Status API when TLS handshake fails [#8649](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8649)
    - Fix the potential undefined behaviors [#7782](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7782)
    - Fix the possible panic caused by generating snapshots when executing `UnsafeDestroyRange` [#8681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8681)

+ PD

>     - Fix the bug that PD might panic If some Regions have no Leader when `balance-region` is enabled [#2994](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2994)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that PD might panic if some Regions have no Leader when `balance-region` is enabled [#2994](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2994)
```

    - Fix the statistical deviation of Region size and Region keys after Region merge [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2985)
    - Fix the incorrect hotspot statistics [#2991](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2991)
    - Fix the issue that there is no `nil` check in `redirectSchedulerDelete` [#2974](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2974)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix the wrong result of right outer join

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

>         - Fix a bug that causes the TiDB config to change after the restore process [#509](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/509)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
        - Fix a bug that causes the TiDB configuration to change after the restore process [#509](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/509)
```

    - Fix possible panic of generating snap when doing UnsafeDestroyRange [#8681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8681)

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that pd might panic If some regions have no leader when `balance-region` enabled [#2994](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2994)
    - Fix the statistical deviation of region size and region keys after region merge [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2985)
    - Fix error hot statistic metrics [#2991](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2991)
    - Fix miss err in `redirectSchedulerDelete` [#2974](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2974)

+ TiFlash

    - Fix wrong result of right outer join

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - Fix a bug that caused the TiDB config changed after restoring [#509](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/509)

    + Dumpling

        - Fix the problem that dumpling fails to parse metadata when some variables are `NULL` [#150](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/150)

## Others

+ TiDB

    - Update stats per table to avoid OOM [#20013](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20013)
    - Refine error message desensitization [#20004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20004)

>     - Accept connections from clients using connectors from MySQL 8.0 [#19959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19959)

Reviewer 4: @lzmhhh123 Please help confirm the category(ies) of the three notes and move them to the corresponding sections.

---
title: TiDB 4.0.7 Release Notes
---

# TiDB 4.0.7 Release Notes

Release date: September 29, 2020

TiDB version: 4.0.7

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - Add more runtime information for join executor [#20093](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20093)

+ TiFlash

    - Improve error handling of Region meta change happened during read in progress

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
+ Tools
    + TiCDC
    -  Support to translate to more execution efficient SQLs in MySQL sink when the old value feature is enabled. [#955](https://github.com/pingcap/ticdc/pull/955)
    
    + BR
    - Add retry when backup connection was broken [#508](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/508)
    
    + Lightning
    - Lightning's log level can be dynamically updated via HTTP [#393](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-lightning/pull/393)
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+ TiKV
  - Support JSON log format [#8382](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8382)
```

>     - Improve error handling when reading request and Region meta change in concurrency [#1109](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/1109)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Improve error handling of Region meta change happened during read in progress [#1109](https://github.com/pingcap/tics/pull/1109)
```

## Bug Fixes

+ TiDB

>     - Solve vectorization bug from and/or/COALESCE due to short cut [#20092](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20092)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Solve vectorization bug from and/or/COALESCE due to shortcut [#20092](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20092)
```

    - Fix issue of plan digest is same when cop task store is different [#20076](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20076)
    - Fix wrong behavior for `!= any()` [#20062](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20062)
    - Fix issue query slow_query error when slow-log file not exist [#20051](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20051)
    - Fix unexpected retry region request when context cancel [#20031](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20031)
    - Fix issue querying cluster_slow_query time type in streaming request bug [#19943](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19943)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix a bug that DML using caseWhen may cause schema change [#20095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20095)
    - Fix log desensitization bug in prestmt [#20048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20048)
    - Fix panic tidb-server doesn't release table lock [#20020](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20020)
    - Fix incorrect error message of inserting enum & set [#19950](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19950)
    - Fix the behavior of rewrite ScalarFunction IsTure [#19903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19903)
    - Fix CLUSTER_INFO system table may not work after PD is scaled-in or out [#20026](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20026)
    - Avoid unnecessary warnings/errors when folding constants in control expr [#19910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19910)

```

+ PD

    - Fix the bug that pd might panic If some regions have no leader when `balance-region` enabled [#2994](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2994)
    - Fix the statistical deviation of region size and region keys after region merge [#2985](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2985)

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

+ TiKV

  - Fix status service shutdown when TLS handshake failed [#8649](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8649)
  - Fix potential undefined behaviors [#7782](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/7782)
  - Fix possible panic of generating snap when doing UnsafeDestroyRange [#8681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8681)
```

> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
+ TiFlash

    - Fix wrong result of TiFlash right outer join
    
```

+ TiFlash

    - Fix wrong result of right outer join

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
+ Tools
    + BR
    - fix a bug that caused the TiDB config changed after restoring [#509](https://github.com/pingcap/br/pull/509)
    
    + Dumpling
    - fix the problem that dumpling fails to parse metadata when some variables are NULL [#150](https://github.com/pingcap/dumpling/pull/150)
    -
```

## Others

+ TiDB

>     - Fix a bug that DML using caseWhen may cause schema change [#20095](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20095)
>     - Fix log desensitization bug in prestmt [#20048](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20048)
>     - Bug fix:CLUSTER_INFO system table may not work after PD is scaled-in or out [#20026](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20026)
>     - Fix panic tidb-server doesn't release table lock [#20020](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20020)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - Update stats per table to avoid OOM [#20013](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20013)
    - Refine error message desensitization [#20004](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/20004)
    - Add coprocessor cache hit ratio in explain analyze [#19972](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19972)
    - Support push ROUND function to TiFlash [#19967](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19967)

>     - TiDB now accepts connections from clients using connectors from MySQL 8.0 [#19959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19959)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Accpet connections from clients using connectors from MySQL 8.0 [#19959](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19959)
```

>     - Fix incorrect error message of inserting enum & set [#19950](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19950)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

    - Add default value of CMSketch for Analyze [#19927](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19927)

>     - Avoid unnecessary warnings/errors when folding constants in control expr [#19910](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19910)
>     - Fix the behavior of rewrite ScalarFunction IsTure [#19903](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/19903)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 
> + TiKV
> 
>     - Fix possible missing blob file error of generating snap when doing UnsafeDestroyRange [#8681](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8681)
>     - Fix the bug that status server shutdown when the TLS handshake fails [#8654](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/pull/8654)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

+ PD

>     - Update the dependency of errors [#3003](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3003)
>     - Dashboard: update to v2020.09.21.1 [#3002](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3002)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Update the dependency of errors [#3003](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/3003)
```

    - Fix miss err in `redirectSchedulerDelete` [#2974](https://github.com/pingcap/pd/pull/2974)

> + TiFlash
> 
>     - Fix TiFlash right out join bug

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```
